Inspired by the work of [Raspurrin](https://github.com/Raspurrin), I started to write some similar guidelines but more in-depth descriptions of the 42 projects, why I think they are selected to be part of the core, and what I think is important to take from each of them. When I remember one of my senior students in 42-Wolfsburg, "You guys are lucky to have the resources; as the first student of the school, we had to search for resources on our own." she said, and with some delay, she added, "That took most of our time."

Later, I talked to an old friend who was thinking about whether he should consider joining and, if so, when would be the best entry to the school. While talking to him, I wished there was a document that explained the core circles, how time-consuming they are, and what you can expect from the core at the end. Would you be an experienced programmer? Would you be able to jump in and write your program to solve your daily problems? Can you start as a server administrator? Can you become a hacker? And many other questions.

At the same time, I also got to know many senior students while evaluating their work, trying to help them with their projects, asking them to help me with my projects, or just catching up with them during coffee. I realized some of them are suffering from fundamental problems. I came across several codes with little to no comments, bizarre names for functions or variables, implementation of functions in the [libft](_@link_ under progress), files distributed inside folders without descriptions, passing a variable mostly called data of type t_data through all (or most) the functions, etc.

When I asked why to figure out if there was a reason for that, I heard: "the norm is not required at this level anymore", "I know what is in the function", "There is no need to waste time on the comments I'm the only one using this code", "no one uses their libft man!", "I know what I am doing", "That's not the problem. The problem is something else.", "to get rid of norm errors", etc.

So here I am writing my take from the projects, why I think they are selected, the point of doing them, where you find them useful in the 42 core, and how I think the development should be. I also ask any 42 students to correct me going forward. 

## What is 42?
From my point of view, the 42 is a concept for learning programming in the same way frontier learned it. By trial and fail, or in other words, by reinventing the wheel. You will get no teachers, classes, or anything like regular universities. Instead, you will get videos on some of the basic knowledge you need, hints on the project descriptions called "subject.pdf," and most importantly, your peers. The peers are helpful on multiple fronts: searching on topics, sharing learning resources, sharing their takes on each project, solving your code problems (i.e., bugs), grouping with you to attack the project together, and most importantly, asking questions during the evaluation of your code that you didn't ask.

## Why reinventing the wheel is a good idea?
Now you might think there is no need to reinvent the wheel! Right? I would argue that the wheel is not invented yet, and it's just in the designing and redesigning process. Or in other words, We are in a fascinating area of inventing it. Let's look at civil or mechanical engineering, for example. Engineers can design and build almost anything to the edge of what the physic allows them, from using bio-generated material to building skyscrapers to move humans to other planets; you name it, they make it. But in computer science, we had several revolutions, both in the hardware and software, just in the last three decades. I think it's safe to say that computer science is a very young knowledge, and many things that we are doing today and getting used to can become remote in the near future. Think of continuum computers, and if they become popular.

So back to reinventing the wheel, writing code in more than ten languages, and for more than two decades, I am learning now (in the 42 core) that you might forget what you read somewhere online or in a book, but you will not forget the pain of rewriting or reading a bad or incomplete code. In reinventing the wheels in 42 schools, you see the evolvement of some of the primary thoughts of the frontiers regenerated by the students. You'll see some of the students start to figure out the advantage of code reusability, documentation, writing clean code, etc., by themselves on a daily bases. I found this fascinating since, most of the time, these are the ones with little or no background in programming. 
Even more fascinating is that each student's approach is slightly different than the others. Because each is coping with their individual difficulties or solving their problem the way that works for them the best, but all are moving in the same direction.

I highly believe those students are the ones ending up contributing to subsequent revolutions in computer science or, if you will, redesigning the wheel. 

## Is this for you?
This document is in no way a replacement for working with peers and has no attention to substitute the job of senior students in your 42 community. It is simply our take (i.e., contributors of this repo) on each project in the core. 
Thus, if you are a 42 student in a newly founded community or a student that is struggling with finding information on know-how on the core project, or if you are looking to know if the 42 is something for you and have not been able to take the Piscine yet, then this hopefully will help you find some answers. 
